
Welcome to the lab, and thank you for participating in today’s experiment.
Please place all your personal belongings away and switch off your phones and other mobile devices so
we can have your complete attention. DO NOT socialize or talk during the experiment.
It is very important that you do not touch the computer until you are instructed to do so. When you are
told to use the computer, please use it only as instructed. In particular, do not attempt to browse the
web or use programs unrelated to the experiment.
The Experiment
The experiment you participate in today is an experiment in spatial planning, where you and other
participants determine whether a Project gets developed or not. At the end of the experiment, you are
paid for your participation in cash. Each of you may earn different amounts. The amount you earn
depends on your decisions, chance, and others’ decisions.
You will be using the computer for the entire experiment, and all interaction between you and others
will be through computer terminals. You will interact anonymously and your decisions will only be
stored together with your random ID number. Your name will not be made public, neither today nor in
the future.
Computer Instruction
We will go through these instructions very slowly and it is important that you follow them. If you have
any questions, raise your hand and your question will be answered so everyone can hear.
Overview of the experiment
At the start of the experiment, each of you will be randomly assigned a role, you will be a developer,
owner, or speculator. All roles remain the same throughout today’s experiment; so if you are an
owner in round 1, you remain an owner throughout the experiment. In this experiment, you will play
6 rounds; the first round is a practice round. Your performance in the remaining 5 rounds will
determine your pay. One of those rounds will be picked at random to determine your payment.
In every round, all players will decide on the development of a plot of land owned by the developer via
a set procedure. The players either implement a Project, or no Project is implemented. The project
decreases the value of all the land owners by different values, as well as increases the value of the
developer. Both the value of the land with a Project and the value of the land with No Project are
randomly drawn for each owner and the developer in each round.